README.rst, before:

modepy: Basis Functions and Node Sets for Interpolation
=======================================================

.. image:: https://gitlab.tiker.net/inducer/modepy/badges/main/pipeline.svg
    :alt: Gitlab Build Status
    :target: https://gitlab.tiker.net/inducer/modepy/commits/main
.. image:: https://github.com/inducer/modepy/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push
    :alt: Github Build Status
    :target: https://github.com/inducer/modepy/actions?query=branch%3Amain+workflow%3ACI+event%3Apush
.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/modepy.png
    :alt: Python Package Index Release Page
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/modepy/

modepy helps you create well-behaved high-order
discretizations on simplices (i.e. triangles and tetrahedra).
These are a key building block for high-order unstructured
discretizations, as often used in a finite element context.
It closely follows the approach taken in the book

  Hesthaven, Jan S., and Tim Warburton. "Nodal Discontinuous Galerkin Methods:
  Algorithms, Analysis, and Applications". 1st ed. Springer, 2007.
  `Book web page <http://nudg.org>`_

Resources:

* `documentation <http://documen.tician.de/modepy>`_
* `wiki home page <http://wiki.tiker.net/ModePy>`_
* `source code via git <http://github.com/inducer/modepy>`_

Commit message:

update docs to mention tensor products

README.rst, after:

modepy: Basis Functions and Node Sets for Interpolation
=======================================================

.. image:: https://gitlab.tiker.net/inducer/modepy/badges/main/pipeline.svg
    :alt: Gitlab Build Status
    :target: https://gitlab.tiker.net/inducer/modepy/commits/main
.. image:: https://github.com/inducer/modepy/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push
    :alt: Github Build Status
    :target: https://github.com/inducer/modepy/actions?query=branch%3Amain+workflow%3ACI+event%3Apush
.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/modepy.png
    :alt: Python Package Index Release Page
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/modepy/

``modepy`` helps you create well-behaved high-order discretizations on
simplices (i.e. segments, triangles and tetrahedra) and tensor products of
simplices (i.e. squares, cubes, prisms, etc.). These are a key building block
for high-order unstructured discretizations, as often used in a finite
element context. It closely follows the approach taken in the book

  Hesthaven, Jan S., and Tim Warburton. "Nodal Discontinuous Galerkin Methods:
  Algorithms, Analysis, and Applications". 1st ed. Springer, 2007.
  `Book web page <http://nudg.org>`_

Resources:

* `documentation <http://documen.tician.de/modepy>`_
* `wiki home page <http://wiki.tiker.net/ModePy>`_
* `source code via git <http://github.com/inducer/modepy>`_
